Mr. Jones lives on the Manor Farm, he is an alcoholic. The animals of the farm go to the barn to hear what old Major, the well respected prized Middle White Boar, has to say about a recent dream. Bluebell, Jessie, and Pincher are the three farm dogs. Boxer, and Clover are the two cart-horses. Muriel is the white goat, and Benjamin is the donkey. old Major tells the animals that humans are enemies of animals, because humans force animals to do all the jobs they cannot do. He also says they must work to overthrow the human race. old Major teaches them a song, but while they sing it they wake up Mr. Jones, so they must go to sleep.
Three nights after the meeting, old Major dies in his sleep. The animals started to think about preparing for the future rebellion. They came up with a system of rebelling ideas which they called animalism. One night, Mr. Jones became so drunk at a bar he didn’t return to his farm till the next day. The animals were unfed, and became so hungry they broke into the store-shed and started to eat the food in the bins. When Mr. Jones returns and sees what the animals have done, he and four other men began beating the animals. The animals then began beating on the humans, who eventually run away for their life. The animals were thrilled not to be anybody’s slave anymore, they create “The Seven Commandments”.
The animals all worked hard in the field collectively, and were rewarded with a great harvest season. Boxer was the hardest worker of all the animals, his personal motto was, “I will work harder”. Some animals had trouble learning and memorizing “The Seven Commandments” so Snowball decided to simplify the Commandments to, “Four legs good, two legs bad.”
Snowball and Napoleon send pigeons to neighboring farms telling them of their rebellion and urging them to do the same. Mr. Jones sits at the Red Lion Pub, and drinks his problems away. In October, Mr. Jones and other farmers come to back to Manor Farm, to try to recapture it. The animals knew that Mr. Jones would come back, and were prepared for it. Snowball was in charge of defensive operations. The animals once again defeated Mr. Jones and his friends, Boxer accidentally kills a boy.
Clover confronts Mollie about her lacking work ethic, soon after that Mollie disappeared. Snowball and Napoleon had become bitter rivals with one another. Snowball wanted to build a windmill on the farm, but Napoleon wanted no part of it. Nine dogs chase Snowball off the farm. Napoleon announces that the windmill will be built, he claims the reason he wasn’t in favor of it was because it was his idea, but stolen by Snowball.
The animals work very hard, for the entirety of the year. The animals had enough food to last them through out the summer, but would have to work hard to have a surplus in the winter. Every Monday Mr. Whymper comes around to the farm and gets orders for food, or supplies. Mr. Jones as far away from the farm as he could, to the other side of the country. One morning in November, they awoke to find the almost finished windmill in ruins. Even though there had been a violent windstorm the night before, Napoleon blames in it on Snowball. Napoleon also says that they will begin the rebuilding immediately and will build every day until it is finished.
In January food was very low on the farm. Napoleon made a deal with Mr. Whymper that he would give him four-hundred eggs in return for grain and food until summer came. The animals believe that Snowball snuck into the farm at night, and caused mischief on the farm. One night at a meeting the dogs attack the four pigs, and rip their throats out. They killed everybody who was affiliated with Snowball’s rebellion from Napolean including: the hens, three sheep, and others.
The animals worked so hard, they sometimes thought that it would be better if Mr. Jones was still on the farm. Napoleon never came out of the house, or when he did it was a very rare occasion. If anything good happened to any of the animals they would thank Napoleon for their good fortune. During the summer, three hens confessed to plotting to kill Napoleon, as ordered by Snowball. They were immediately killed. They finish the windmill in autumn. Fredrick and two dozen more men attack Animal Farm, and destroy the windmill. This enrages the animals, and they push the men off the farm. The animals get drunk from whisky.
During the winter they reduce the animal’s amount of food again, except for the dogs, and pigs. In April, the animals decided that they will declare Animal Farm a Republic. Napoleon is unanimously voted President. Boxer falls down, and tells that his lung is bothering him. A van came and they thought it was going to take Boxer to the hospital, but the side of the van read, “Alfred Simmonds, Horse Slaughterer and Glue Boiler, Willingdon.” Squealer said that Boxer died at the Wellington Hospital, the Hospital bought the van from the slaughterer, and hadn’t remarked the side. The animals are very sad about this, and buy more whisky.
Many years went by on the farm, the only animals from the Rebellion still alive are Clover, Benjamin, Moses, and a lot of pigs. The farm was doing tremendous financially and with food. Pilkington and Napoleon become friends. Napoleon announces that Animal Farm will be called the Manor Farm again.
